It's time to dive in to another
extraordinarily important concept
to advance your ability as
a JavaScript developer.
And it's also a topic that causes a lot
of confusion because JavaScript in this
case is so extraordinarily different
from most other programming languages.
And yet, JavaScript once again,
much like first class functions,
is making popular a concept
that in many ways is
better than what is most in use right now.
Let's talk about object-oriented
JavaScript and prototypal inheritance.
And in this course,
when we say object-oriented JavaScript,
we're going to focus primarily
on the creation of objects,
because that's where a great
deal of confusion lies.
So, for our first lecture in this section,
we'll start with a conceptual aside.
Classical versus prototypal inheritance.
Okay, big word alert.
Inheritance, one object gets access to the
properties and methods of another object.
Now remember we're talking
about Java Script.
The general idea of inheritance
is implemented differently
in different languages.
But for our purposes we only need to
understand the most basic concept.
That one object gets access to the
properties and methods of another object.
So, I have two objects,
and my first object
inherits from my second object, it gets
access to its properties and methods.
A lot of talk about inheritance uses all
kinds of crazy examples with animals and
elephants and cars and trains.
I think it's better just to
flat out say what it does.
You have an object,
you have another object, and
I can go and get access to the properties
and methods on that other object.
So, what do we mean when
we're talking about classical
versus prototypal Inheritance.
Well, classical inheritance,
we're talking about what's
currently best known and popular.
It's there in C#, it's there in Java.
It's a way of sharing methods and
properties of objects.
That's very classical.
In other words, it's the way
it's been done for a long time.
The most popular way it's been done for
a long time, anyway.
And right now, I'm not going to say
that classical inheritance is bad.
Obviously, it works,
otherwise it wouldn't be so popular.
However thinking that this
is the only approach.
And thinking that it doesn't
have its downsides is wrong.
Classical inheritance and I've built
plenty of large object structures with
lots of objects that inherit from each
other that share properties and methods.
It's very verbose.
There's a lot going on and you can end up
with these huge, massive collections and
trees of objects that interact and it can
be so hard to figure out how one is going
to affect the other even if you use
good practice once it gets large enough.
It's like building a house that's so
intertwined and
wrong that you change the light bulb,
and all of a sudden, the toilet flushes.
That's how it can feel with
classical inheritance sometimes.
Then you have all these different
keywords flying around, friend and
protected and private and
interface and who knows what else, and
you have to learn what all those mean,
and try to use them.
Again, it's not bad.
But I personally have never
really liked it all that much.
Now when we talk about
prototypal inheritance,
we're talking about
something much simpler.
It's very flexible, very extensible,
and very easy to understand.
And i'm not saying that
it's perfect either, but
you should understand that when we
talk about inheritance in JavaScript,
it's different than what we may be talking
about with other programming languages.
And we need to understand it.
And it won't be hard to understand.
And once you do understand it,
you'll see just how powerful
it can be as an approach to sharing
properties and methods amongst objects.
Just remember when we say inheritance,
we're just talking that
one object gets access to the properties
and methods of another object.
And we're going to see
how JavaScript does that.
Using what's called
prototypal inheritance.
Let's move on.